Add EIP-6049: Deprecate SELFDESTRUCT (#6049)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6049.md

---
eip: 6049
title: Deprecate SELFDESTRUCT
description: Deprecate SELFDESTRUCT by discouraging its use and warning about a potential future behavior change.
author: William Entriken (@fulldecent)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/deprecate-selfdestruct/11907
status: Draft

> type: Standards Track
> category: Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: Meta
```
This doesn't require a hard fork, but makes non-optional recommendations. I think that meta is the correct EIP type.

Author: This requires text changes in the Yellow Paper.

Do other metas do that?

Reviewer: Yes. Hard forks used to be Meta-EIPs.

created: 2022-11-27
---

## Abstract

> This EIP deprecates the `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode and warns against its use. A breaking change to this functionality is likely to come in the future.

Reviewer 2: Would it be useful to link out to https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4758-deactivate-selfdestruct/8710 here for additional context? Or is it bad practice to have one EIP link to another?

Author: I understand that linking out is sometimes frowned upon. Please discussion in the discussion thread if you would like to raise this. It is above my pay grade.

Reviewer 2: SGTM–no strong opinion here, was curious and wanted to flag! 👍 💜

## Motivation

> Discussions about how to change `SELFDESTRUCT` are ongoing. But there is a strong desire to do *something*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discussions about how to change `SELFDESTRUCT` are ongoing. But there is a strong consensus that *something* will change.
```
This language should be stronger.

Author: I agree. But if anyone asks me to prove there is consensus then I need to cite a lot to defend that.

## Specification

> Documentation of the `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode is updated to warn against its use and to note that a breaking change may be forthcoming.

Reviewer: Something like this hasn't been done yet. "Deprecation" should be defined.

Author: "Deprecation" is not used in the specification.

This spec is referring to updating the language of the Yellow Paper. Right now it doesn't say Yellow Paper since I assume that is the implicit meaning that all core EIPs are an update to the Yellow Paper. But if I can make it more clear, I'll do anything needed here.

## Rationale

As time goes on, the cost of doing something increases, because any change to `SELFDESTRUCT` will be a breaking change.

The Ethereum Blog and other official sources have not provided any warning to developers about a potential forthcoming change.

> ## Backward Compatibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Backwards Compatibility
```
The typo is non-optional.

This EIP udpates non-normative text in the Yellow Paper. No changes to clients is applicable.

## Security Considerations

> None.

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45835846/204163587-9eeb4f53-a41c-421a-9782-159427887a9e.png)

Reviewer: Never mind. This EIP does less than what I thought it did.

Author: :-)

## Copyright

> Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
```
